welcome to the man of recaps this is His
Dark Materials episode 1 now the Golden
Compass series seems like it was
everyone's favorite growing up at least
until Harry Potter came around its first
movie adaptation had a great cast but
what's a big flop but now I've got a BBC
HBO show and so far reviews are good
keeping book spoilers out of here please
we're gonna do show only for people that
haven't read it yet and now let's dive
into episode 1 so we're in a parallel
earth the main difference being that
every person has a super cute animal
companion that's why kids all love this
book it's called a demon spelled this
way and apparently it's a physical
manifestation of your soul the other
main difference from our world is that
it's ruled by the Magisterium a fancy
word for the church so we begin at
oxford in the dead of night apparently
after a flood Lord Asriel that's James
McAvoy he's dropping off a baby at the
college he invokes the privilege of
scholastic sanctuary and says that
she'll only be safe inside these walls
the assumption here is that the
Magisterium would be hunting this girl
for some reason and the college has
scholastic sanctuary so they can't touch
her here so 12 years later baby's grown
up into our main character Lyra she's
got her best friend Roger that kitchen
boy and she's had a great childhood
growing up as a ward of Jordan College
just she's a rambunctious little kid the
kids talk about their demons here Lyra's
is called pan short for a pan talia
penta layman pan Telamon gente Lyman
they talk about what animal their demons
will settle as we see that as kids it
looks like they could change forms
willy-nilly but we see later that yeah
when sure about a teenager they settle
on a form now up at the North Pole Lord
Asriel is being a badass Explorer he
must be a real cool nature photographer
because he's risking his life for the
right picture of the aurora borealis and
when he gets back to develop him he's
like oh we did it found that down the
thing over at Jordan Lyra super excited
her uncle as riyals back in town she's
gonna spy on his meeting but first sees
the headmaster poisoning his whisky
speaking of whisky if you're playing the
drinking game at home have a drink every
time someone from Game of Thrones shows
up Solaris saves her uncle's life he
seems rather unconcerned that someone's
trying to kill him totally normal when
you're a super cool Lord adventurer
he lets Lara hide in
and watch the big event tonight his
research grant pitch meeting he took a
picture up there of a man and a kid and
with a different type of filter boo the
man's all glowy he claims his particles
are dust and by the way the scholars
freaked out he ain't talking about
normal us it's still a big mystery to us
but what we do learn is that it binds on
adults it ignores kids the other main
thing is that any mention of dust is
apparently super heretical and the
Magisterium would not allow this to
happen
we find out later that's why the
headmaster was going to assassinate Lord
Asriel
because after giving this presentation
the Magisterium is probably gonna revoke
their Scholastic sanctuary lord as Rose
got an even bigger discovery though the
pictures of the Aurora he was taken with
the dust filter on it oh there's a city
up there
yeah parallel worlds to cap off his
presentation he pulls out a frozen head
apparently that's the professor Gruman
who was out on a first expedition up
there theoretically he discovered this
too and the Magisterium killed him for
it
Lyra idolizes her supercool Explorer
uncle and he seems to care for her too
even though he puts her in bed the wrong
way
Mira's determined to go with her uncle
on his adventure but he's like hey
you're just a kid I can't be taking her
along to the North Pole so he throws her
off the airship by the way they have
super-sweet airships in this world and
apparently the airship pilots wait for
no one
because Azrael is still outside here
hanging on in a super cool pose now we
go over to a new group of characters the
Gyptians I think that's a play on the
word [ __ ] or it's sort of like the way
you say Egyptian with an accent and I
have a case young Tony Kosta is going
through his Bar Mitzvah he's a man now
this demon has settled on the form of a
hawk his little brother young Billy
Costa meets a super scary Fox demon and
oh he snatched up the next morning were
hunter tells Lyra about it word on the
street is he was taken by the gobblers
the Gyptians are looking for Billy Costa
when some more Game of Thrones
characters walk in apparently lots of
Gyptian villages have had kids go
missing so the Egyptians are sailing off
to find their kids then we get a scene
at the Magisterium they seem like a
classic evil empire except with a
religious theme this guy's called father
and they're talking about Lord Asriel is
heresy but yeah more on them later then
we meet a big new character mrs. cult
she's very nice too Lyra and is
apparently a super cool explorer scholar
herself and like a dream come true she
offers to take Lyra with her as her
assistant
Lyra wants to take her friend Roger to
and she's like yeah I guess that's fine
but that night the super creepy Fox and
ol Rogers gobbler DUP the next morning
the head professors call IRA in for a
secret meeting apparently they know
something about Lyra she's involved in
some prophecy but they don't tell her
that for now they're just like hey I
good luck out there and here is a Golden
Compass it's called an alley theatre and
apparently it tells you the truth
unfortunately it doesn't come with
instructions so the heavens just
shouting at it like hey where's Roger
it's also super illegal so she's got to
keep it a secret virus like hey mrs.
Coulter I'm worried about Roger and
unlike most adults which would brush her
off she takes it very seriously she's
like look the best thing we can do for
him is go to London if the gobblers got
him that's where they took Lyra almost
misses the airship I'm telling you these
pilots are on a tight schedule but in
any case she's flying off on an
adventure with the definitely not a bad
guy mrs. Coulter and that's how episode
1 comes to an end hit that subscribe
button for weekly episode recaps of His
Dark Materials plus all of my other
amazing recaps
[Music]